# **Software Design Pattern Calculator**
## _A command-line calculator program that demonstrates essential software design patterns._

This program focuses on practicing various software design patterns that I learned from my Software Design Principles class at IUPUI. Throughout the semester, we continued to build on what we previously learned until we came to a final result of two separate versions of a simple calculator program where each version applied different design patterns. This project combines those two versions into an example system where a client would make use of the calculator through an interface that allows the client to solve simple mathematical expressions using either selected solving strategy. Both strategies make use of several utility classes that I also implemented for this class, which contain data structures such as a fixed-size array, resizable array, stack, and queue.

The program focuses primarily on demonstrating various software design patterns rather than creating a useful expression calculator tool. This means that the design is somewhat overkill for a calculator, but it was never meant to be a daily-use calculator app in the first place.

### **Disclaimer**
I am not responsible for any plagiarism of my work. This project's visibility setting is set to public so it can be seen as a portfolio piece, not as a reference for how to complete the same assignments from the Software Design Principles class. 

## Building and Running the Program
This program uses a makefile generated by [Makefile Project Creator](https://github.com/DOCGroup/MPC) (MPC). The makefile has several commands for compiling and executing the program.

- Use ```make``` to compile all object files in the project.
- ```make run``` will compile and run the calculator program with no strategy selected. The program will then prompt the user to choose a strategy to continue with. Running ```./calculator``` after compiling the program with ```make``` will produce the same result.
- ```make factory``` will compile and run the program with the abstract factory pattern strategy selected. Running ```./calculator -f``` after compiling the program with ```make``` will produce the same result.
- ```make builder``` will compile and run the program with the builder pattern strategy selected. Running ```./calculator -b``` after compiling the program with ```make``` will produce the same result.
- ```make driver``` will compile and run the program where it will conduct all tests in the driver file before continuing to the main calculator program.
- ```make clean``` will remove all compiled object files, but leave the most recent compiled executable.
- ```make realclean``` will remove all compiled object files, including executables.

## Using the Calculator
This calculator program supports several simple mathematical operations, such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and modulus. The calculator also supports sub-expressions contained in parentheses. To make it easier to parse the expressions, the main requirement for entering expressions is for each term to be separated by a space, including parentheses. For example, a valid expression would look like "4 + 3 * ( 2 % 1 )".

### Valid Expressions
Since this program focuses more on design patterns than creating a perfect calculator system, it is assumed that expressions entered will produce a valid result. There are several factors that must be considered when creating a valid expression.

Expressions must be composed of positive integers, and their solution must equal a positive or negative integer. Expressions containing floating point values and negative integers will result in an invalid expression. Single term inputs will not be considered as an expression, so entering “5” will produce an invalid result. Sub-expressions enclosed in parentheses act as a single term as well. The result of the sub-expression will replace it as the term. This means that entering “( 2 * 7 )” will produce an invalid result, as its answer (14) will replace the sub expression, leaving a single term. Therefore, shorthand for multiplying against parentheses will also create an invalid result. For example, the expression “4 ( 3 - 2 )” will produce an invalid result, where “4 * ( 3 - 2 )” will produce a valid result of 4. 

### Sample Expressions
- 6 / 3 + 3 * ( 2 + ( 7 - 5 )
- 5 * ( 2 + 1 ) - 2 * ( 8 - 3 )
- 4 + 3 / 1 * 2 - 3
- ( 5 % 4 + 9 ) / 2 - ( 15 * 1 - 12 )
- 2 * ( 9 - 3 * 2 ) / 2
- ( 3 + 5 ) / ( 1 * ( 7 - 3 ) )
- 9 - 5 + 2 + 6 - 4 * 2
- 7 * ( 5 - 3 ) - 4 + 6 / 3
